# ECCEchallenge

Ever had a tail light out? How did you find out that it was no longer working? We’re guessing that someone told you. That’s the idea behind this app – we let people know what isn’t working. Our idea is for the community to assist each other when things aren’t functioning properly. To start, we are focusing on traffic, mainly: road lights, stop signs and yield signs. If any of these things are malfunctioning, broken, or missing, our app will bring that to the attention of the required personnel who must tend to the issue. Our app creates a more accessible avenue for members of the community to notify each other, and their municipality leaders and road-side technicians of relevant issues.

We are solving this problem using ArcGIS JavaScript software. On the homepage of our app, you will find an Esri open data map sourced from the Oak Bay, BC, Canada map created by jan123 in 2011. On the app is data sourced from the City of Victoria open data catalogue showing traffic speeds, traffic signals and intersection signals, as well as markers. Ideally these markers would have been issued by community members when they notice that something is not working. Markers have three levels – red indicating severe, yellow indicating moderate, and green indicating minor. These colours indicate the severity or immediacy of the issue. The more people to tag or vote on a marker on a specific area of the map, the more severe the problem appears. Users may have the option to choose the colour and therefore level of severity so as to alert the public to potentially dangerous situations such as a fallen stop sign. Essentially, this is a forum type app that requires user input to assist community executives in fixing issues that arise in a timely manner.

The opening page allows for the user to enter their login information, therefore ensuring a measure of accountability to each marker posting and minimizing the policing of new markers by app organizers. Once a city or location was entered the app would zoom into the chosen location and give a city view of the roads in the area. The user would have to choose a layer to view, either motor vehicle, bike, or pedestrian to show markers and routes and problem areas specific to those layers. A user would be able to view all of the markers and votes on each marker in whichever layer they choose, and then vote on or create their own marker. When creating a marker, a person could tap or select a spot on the map that they believe to be approximately closest to the issue and relay this by leaving a comment, colour, and layer chosen for their marker. The rest of the community should then be able to view and vote on this marker. Voting allows for the municipality or technicians to see which problems are real and require attention, as well as the color of the marker.

We believe our app is the first of its kind. We hope it would provide community members a method to inform technicians and municipality leaders of current issues in a very efficient way. It would also serve to alert other members of the community to undesirable routes due to obstruction or hazard. We would hope to develop other layers for our maps to cater to pedestrians and cyclists, that would allow for better communication and safety awareness. 





